# Project Journal

---

## Session 1

22/01/2025

Week 1/12

### Meeting agenda 1

- A1: define requirements / user stories !
- A2: get answers to Questions

### Questions 1

- Is the project management timeline correct?
- UFiT in main Github domain, my repo in GH CU domain
- C or C++?
- what (type of) devices should it be tested?
- any extra literature recommendations?
- should I use Github Project?
- should I run "empty" test suite against the UFiT program?
- any available test inputs + outputs to use? other than one generated by the Python script

### Notes 1

Allocate more time for "implementing core functionalities"
Import UFiT project repository in my repository
decide on C or C++ - probably C++ due to classes
For benchmarking, find computers in Uni buildings ECB + BSB, go for low-end high-end computers, note down CPU, RAM specs
Similar projects to UFiT:

- https://iopscience.iop.org/article/10.3847/1538-4357/ad55ca/pdf 
- https://bitbucket.org/tassev/qsl_squasher/src/hg/qslSquasher.cpp

Create dummy GH project, to test CI/CD env push tests
Supervisor can supply test inputs and outputs on request

### Tasks 1

- T1: Check project scope against requirements
- T2a: Read in / Process the UFiT documentation:
- T2b: Analyse command line arguments
- T3: Define test types to implement: unit test, integration test, white-box, black-box, gray-box, etc

T1:

Requirement:

documented unit testing and deploy framework performed on multithreaded high perf code.

- min 3 unit tests,
- optional integration tests
- extensible (framework) => explain how to add new tests
- autorun unit test against the program upon push
- report of test: point by point list of unit tests
- human readable descr / aim of test
- start with black box -> move to white box through gray-box
- pay attention to (precise) bitwise match between tests - assess it partly - eg.: range of output ( threshold can be a parameter ) - this means at each run, e.g. due to floating point variables, output can differ slightly - therefore using ranges as tests could solve this

---

## Session 2

29/01/2025

Week 2/12

### Meeting agenda 2

Discuss the project scope, review the UFIT docs.

### Questions 2

- Is the UFiT Documentation - present on Github - the final, and most compositive version of the UFIT docs?
- UFIT scope: fortran only, or python as well?

### Notes 2

The Python scripts can be ignored further than running successfully: check if finish.
The Python popup window could cause issues while testing.
UFIT docs could change over time, therefore frequent review is necessary - automatic or manual
UFIT repo is cloned from original, therefore it can be pulled anytime.
Data of input samples will be aquired soon.
Need gfortran on Linux

### Tasks 2

Declare which release / version of UFIT is the latest assessed in the tests.
Due to python3 environment, and gfortran, and other dependencies, the tests will be carried out in a docker container.

---

## Session 3

06/02/2025

Week 3/12

### Meeting agenda 3

C binding with Fortran, example input, output

### Questions 3

### Notes 3

example output

when testing: largest abs(), mean~=0, stanDev

python script can be modified, but do it professionally = edit the copy

---

## Session 4

12/02/2025

Week 4/12

### Meeting agenda 4

Output analysis, comparing multiple float or double datatype outputs

### Questions 4

### Notes 4

example output

when testing: largest abs(), mean~=0, stanDev

python script can be modified, but do it professionally = edit the copy

---

## Session 5

19/02/2025

Week 5/12

### Meeting agenda 5

Fortran pointer to C++ binding
check against research topics

### Questions 5

### Notes 5

check sample outputs
write about C Binding types: voids, float functions, subroutines, etc
plut the bindings into the unit test
gradually: unit test -> write up -> proceed

---

## Session 6

26/02/2025

Week 6/12

### Meeting agenda 6

Focus on implementing the unit test skeleton

Docker container improvements, integrating CI/CD pipeline

### Questions 6

### Notes 6

Focus on unit tests and test suite implementation
Enhance Docker image

---

## Session 7

05/03/2025

Week 7/12

### Meeting agenda 7

Polishing unit tests

---

## Session 8

12/03/2025

Week 8/12

### Meeting agenda 8

Regression testing, golden files, binary diff

Golden files serve as a benchmark for evaluating the accuracy and consistency of data or outputs. 

golden files should only change if the file format changes, or major changes happen

### Task 8

prepare the presentation,

mock presentation date: ~ w10

---

## Session 9

19/03/2025

Week 9/12

### Meeting agenda 9

Presentation Prepairation
check benchmarking outputs
Documentation review, add more details?

### Task 9

prepare the presentation on the project, practise

intro: 
- research questions
- on motiv (compSci, useCase, personalDevelopment)
used testing methods, frameworks - using figures
live demo
conclusions: on the project, confident reflection on the research questions

explain github repo in presentation

---

## Session 10

24/03/2025

Week 10/12

### Meeting agenda 10

Final presentation rehearsal

documentation refinement

### Notes 10

Final presentation structure approved, focus on clarity and visual aids,
possible improvements in final slides

### Task 10

Run and export coverage reports
Finalize GitHub README and DOCS
Practice presentation live

---

